README.md, before:

# EVERGOAL README

You're reading the back end of Evergoal! Visit here for the front end: 

https://github.com/AnnaWijetunga/evergoal-frontend

# Evergoal (back end)

Evergoal was built using a Rails API back end, which the front end (React/Redux) communicates with.

## Overview

Evergoal is perfect for professionals who want to organize their personal and professional goals in one tidy place. This goal organizer can help keep you organized while also tracking goal progress over time.

You can add a new goal, and within that goal, add new objectives to help keep your goal actionable. Once an objective is complete, you can check the box - complete! You can delete the entire goal, or any of the objectives, at any time.

# Video Walkthrough

Click here for a 1-minute walkthrough of Evergoal: https://vimeo.com/407732985

## Installation

Fork and clone repos

    $ git clone https://github.com/AnnaWijetunga/evergoal-backend
    $ git clone https://github.com/AnnaWijetunga/evergoal-frontend

Using two terminals, switch to each respective directory

    $ cd evergoal-backend
    $ cd evergoal-frontend

Startup the server (within the back end terminal)

    $ rails s

Enter in browser to launch the rails server

    $  localhost:3000

Startup the server (within the front end terminal)

    $ npm start

You may be prompted to use an alternate port - type Y or YES. Then a new browser window will open with Evergoal.

## Usage

Welcome! Click My Goals, and there you will see the a form for setting a new goal. You will add the Aim (short title) and your Strategy (a sentence or two encapsulating how you'll attack this goal).

Click Add Goal to add the goal!

Once added, it will display above the form - and there you can click on that goal to edit it and add objectives OR you can delete the goal.

If choosing to edit, click on that goal and then you can add objectives to your goal. Make them actionable and bite-sized, usually a sentence or fragment will do. Click submit or hit enter and your objective will be posted. 

From there, you can check the box, to show you've completed an objective, or you can click to X to delete it entirely.

Click Home at any time to go back to your Homepage, and click My Goals to continue working on existing goals or add a new one. Happy goal setting!

## Contributing

This project is intended to be a safe, welcoming space for collaboration, and contributors are expected to adhere to the [Contributor Covenant](http://contributor-covenant.org) code of conduct.

## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

## Code of Conduct

Everyone interacting in the Evergoal project’s codebases, issue trackers, chat rooms and mailing lists is expected to follow the [code of conduct](https://github.com/<AnnaWijetunga>/evergoal-backend/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

Commit message:

Add live link to Evergoal app

README.md, after:

# EVERGOAL README

You're reading the back end of Evergoal! Visit here for the front end: 

https://github.com/AnnaWijetunga/evergoal-frontend

To see Evergoal live, you're welcome to click here:

https://my-evergoal.herokuapp.com/

# Evergoal (back end)

Evergoal was built using a Rails API back end, which the front end (React/Redux) communicates with.

## Overview

Evergoal is perfect for professionals who want to organize their personal and professional goals in one tidy place. This goal organizer can help keep you organized while also tracking goal progress over time.

You can add a new goal, and within that goal, add new objectives to help keep your goal actionable. Once an objective is complete, you can check the box - complete! You can delete the entire goal, or any of the objectives, at any time.

# Video Walkthrough

Click here for a 1-minute walkthrough of Evergoal: https://vimeo.com/407732985

## Installation

Fork and clone repos

    $ git clone https://github.com/AnnaWijetunga/evergoal-backend
    $ git clone https://github.com/AnnaWijetunga/evergoal-frontend

Using two terminals, switch to each respective directory

    $ cd evergoal-backend
    $ cd evergoal-frontend

Startup the server (within the back end terminal)

    $ rails s

Enter in browser to launch the rails server

    $  localhost:3000

Startup the server (within the front end terminal)

    $ npm start

You may be prompted to use an alternate port - type Y or YES. Then a new browser window will open with Evergoal.

## Usage

Welcome! Click My Goals, and there you will see the a form for setting a new goal. You will add the Aim (short title) and your Strategy (a sentence or two encapsulating how you'll attack this goal).

Click Add Goal to add the goal!

Once added, it will display above the form - and there you can click on that goal to edit it and add objectives OR you can delete the goal.

If choosing to edit, click on that goal and then you can add objectives to your goal. Make them actionable and bite-sized, usually a sentence or fragment will do. Click submit or hit enter and your objective will be posted. 

From there, you can check the box, to show you've completed an objective, or you can click to X to delete it entirely.

Click Home at any time to go back to your Homepage, and click My Goals to continue working on existing goals or add a new one. Happy goal setting!

## Contributing

This project is intended to be a safe, welcoming space for collaboration, and contributors are expected to adhere to the [Contributor Covenant](http://contributor-covenant.org) code of conduct.

## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

## Code of Conduct

Everyone interacting in the Evergoal project’s codebases, issue trackers, chat rooms and mailing lists is expected to follow the [code of conduct](https://github.com/<AnnaWijetunga>/evergoal-backend/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
